It is a disgrace that my full Cabinet is still not in place, the longest such delay in the history of our country. Obstruction by Democrats!

I don't know Putin, have no deals in Russia, and the haters are going crazy - yet Obama can make a deal with Iran, #1 in terror, no problem!

The threat from radical Islamic terrorism is very real, just look at what is happening in Europe and the Middle-East. Courts must act fast!

The failing @nytimes was forced to apologize to its subscribers for the poor reporting it did on my election win. Now they are worse!

I call my own shots, largely based on an accumulation of data, and everyone knows it. Some FAKE NEWS media, in order to marginalize, lies!

Any negative polls are fake news, just like the CNN, ABC, NBC polls in the election. Sorry, people want border security and extreme vetting.

I have instructed Homeland Security to check people coming into our country VERY CAREFULLY. The courts are making the job very difficult!

Just cannot  believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!

The judge opens up our country to potential terrorists and others that do not have our best interests at heart. Bad people are very happy!

Why aren't the lawyers looking at and using the Federal Court decision in Boston, which is at conflict with ridiculous lift ban decision?

Because the ban was lifted by a judge, many very bad and dangerous people may be pouring into our country. A terrible decision

MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

Interesting that certain Middle-Eastern countries agree with the ban. They know if certain people are allowed in it's death & destruction!

We must keep "evil" out of our country!

Professional anarchists, thugs and paid protesters are proving the point of the millions of people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!

Thank you to Prime Minister of Australia for telling the truth about our very civil conversation that FAKE NEWS media lied about. Very nice!

Yes, Arnold Schwarzenegger did a really bad job as Governor of California and even worse on the Apprentice...but at least he tried hard!

Ungrateful TRAITOR Chelsea Manning, who should never have been released from prison, is now calling President Obama a weak leader. Terrible!

If Chicago doesn't fix the horrible "carnage" going on, 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings (up 24% from 2016), I will send in the Feds!

 Will be meeting at 9:00 with top automobile executives concerning jobs in America. I want new plants to be built here for cars sold here!
 
 January 20th 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again.
